---
layout: post
title: Parallel Computing in Computational Mechanics - C++ Implementation
subtitle: Master's Project
cover-img: /assets/img/fem/fem_1_bg.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/projects/PCCM_Project_MPI.jpg
tags: [FEM, C++]
---
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>

<h3>Note</h3>
Hello, this webpage is still under development. The content is not yet worked on/ finalized and the links are not yet working. Please check back later. Thanks!

<h3>Abstract</h3>
<p>
The project's major goal is to comprehend and see the trends in speed and efficiency of a serial code when it is parallelized using OpenMP and MPI. A Finite Element solver is used to discretize a heat equation characterizing the temperature distribution across a domain shaped in disc. Initially, the problem is solved in serial and then in parallel using OpenMP and MPI. Various optimization flags for the serial solver have been implemented to help reduce the runtime. A combination of the -O2 and -qopt-prefetch was discovered to be the most effective for solving the problem in the shortest amount of time. It is noted that, using parallel techniques resulted in a significant increase in speed and efficiency. The static scheduling with 1024 chunk size was proven to be the fastest configuration after optimizing the scheduling approaches. Changing the mesh density and number of threads resulted in the best thread combination for each type of mesh. Similarly, using an MPI-based technique, the number of cores was changed. The number of cores that resulted in the fastest and most parallelly efficient technique for each type of mesh were recorded and investigated.<br>
</p>

<p style="text-align:center">
Download the full report <a href="/assets/pdf/PCCM_Project_FinalReport.pdf" target="_blank">here</a>.
</p>
<iframe src="/assets/pdf/PCCM_Project_FinalReport.pdf#toolbar=0" width="100%" height="750px"></iframe>
